.TH "gpa" "1" "" "" "User Commands"
.nh
.SH "NAME"
gpa \- graphical frontend for the GNU Privacy Guard

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B gpa
.RB [ "OPTION(S)" ]
.RI [ "FILE(S)" ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The GNU Privacy Assistant (GPA) is a graphical user interface for the GNU
Privacy Guard (GnuPG).
.PP
\fBgpa\fP can be used to encrypt, decrypt, and sign files, to verify
signatures and to manage the private and public keys.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-clipboard
Open the clipboard.  This is the \fIdefault\fP action if no arguments are
given and a key has already been created.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-card
Start with the card-manager open.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daemon
Only start the UI server and no user interface.
.TP
.B \-\-no-remote
Do not connect to a running instance but start a new one.  This can
also be used to not start an UI server.
.TP
.B \-\-debug-edit-fsm
Debug the Finite State Machine (FSM).
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-ticker
Disable ticker used for card operations.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-x509
Disable support for X.509.
.TP
.B \-\-enable-logging
Enable logging on Win32 systems.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-files
Start with the file-manager open. This is the \fIdefault\fP if one or more
\fIFILE(S)\fP are added to the command arguments.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keyring
Start with the keyring editor. This is the \fIdefault\fP for a new
installation.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-options=\fIFILE\fP
Read options from the specified file instead of \fI~/.gnupg/gpa.conf\fP.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-settings
Open the settings dialog.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-gtk
Print options related to GTK. See also
.BR gtk-options "(7)."
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help, \-\-help\-all
Print usage information and exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.gnupg/gpa.conf
Standard user configuration file read by \fBgpa\fP on startup.
.TP
.I ~/.gnupg/S.uiserver
Socket listening for commands to the UI server.

.SH "BUGS"
Please report bugs to
\fI\%http://bugs.gnupg.org/\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
.B gpa
was mainly written by \fBBernhard Herzog\fP, \fBMarcus Brinkmann\fP,
\fBMiguel Coca\fP, and \fBWerner Koch\fP.  See the \fIhelp menu\fR and
\fI\%http://gitstats.gnupg.org/gpa/authors.html\fR for a detailed
list.
.PP
This manual page was written by \fBArthur de Jong\fP <\&adejong@debian.org\&>
and \fBDaniel Leidert\fP <\&daniel.leidert@wgdd.de\&> for the Debian GNU/Linux
system (but may be used by others).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gpg (1),
.BR gpg2 (1),
.BR gpgconf (1),
.BR gpgsm (1),
.BR gtk-options (7)
